GH34445: Doc on using machine config pool during update 2 (#35420)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/update-using-custom-machine-config-pools-mcp.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/update-using-custom-machine-config-pools.adoc

[id="update-using-custom-machine-config-pools-mcp_{context}"]
= Creating machine config pools to perform a canary rollout update

The first task in performing this canary rollout update is to create one or more machine config pools (MCP). 

. Create an MCP from a worker node.

.. List the worker nodes in your cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -l 'node-role.kubernetes.io/master!=' -o 'jsonpath={range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}' nodes
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
ci-ln-pwnll6b-f76d1-s8t9n-worker-a-s75z4
ci-ln-pwnll6b-f76d1-s8t9n-worker-b-dglj2
ci-ln-pwnll6b-f76d1-s8t9n-worker-c-lldbm
----

.. For the nodes you want to delay, add a custom label to the node:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label node <node name> node-role.kubernetes.io/<custom-label>=

Reviewer: Should there be an equal sign at the end of this?

Author: Apparently so:
```
 $ oc label node ci-ln-wl1d49k-f76d1-hqh8r-worker-a-nnjf6 node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary
error: at least one label update is required
mburke@mburke ~ $ oc label node ci-ln-wl1d49k-f76d1-hqh8r-worker-a-nnjf6 node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary=
node/ci-ln-wl1d49k-f76d1-hqh8r-worker-a-nnjf6 labeled
```

----
+
For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc label node ci-ln-0qv1yp2-f76d1-kl2tq-worker-a-j2ssz node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary=

Reviewer: Should there be an equal sign at the end of this?

Author: See above

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
node/ci-ln-gtrwm8t-f76d1-spbl7-worker-a-xk76k labeled
----

.. Create the new MCP:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: workerpool-canary <1>
spec:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions: <2>
      - {
         key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role,
         operator: In,
         values: [worker,workerpool-canary]
        } 
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary: "" <3>
----
<1> Specify a name for the MCP.
<2> Specify the `worker` and custom MCP name.

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specify the custom label you added to the nodes that you want in this pool.
```

Per the IBM style guide, don't use parentheses (s). 

> Do not use the letter s in parentheses (s) to indicate that a noun can be singular or plural. Some languages form plural nouns differently than English, and the construction (s) can cause translation problems. Instead, use the plural form or, if it is important to indicate both singular and plural options, use one or more.

> <2> Specify a selector to filter keys. This selects all nodes with the `machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role` value equal to `worker` and `workerpool-canary`.

Reviewer 2: `machineConfigSelector` is used to select `MachineConfig` which has the label and associates mc and mcp, `nodeSelector` is used to associate node and mcp

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Reviewer 3: The docs we asked the user to add the label name same as MCP name. So I do not  think we need to change from that narrative. Also it also keeps it simple to follow the docs.

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Author: @jiajliu @jianlinliu Can you help here?

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Author: When I create the MCP with the `matchLabels` as in the docs, the node moves:

```
oc get machineconfigpool
NAME                CONFIG                                                        UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master              rendered-master-b9f06deaab4e39c6a025531d8ada384a              True      False      False      3              3                   3                     0                      36m
worker              rendered-worker-0420fb639ebd3e75849c539298f788d7              True      False      False      2              2                   2                     0                      36m
workerpool-canary   rendered-workerpool-canary-0420fb639ebd3e75849c539298f788d7   True      False      False      1              1                   1                     0                      23s
```

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Reviewer 3: @mburke5678 I do not think we are talking about the same thing. Can you put the yaml or command you used to create the `workerpool-canary` and the command to label the node?

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Author: Here is the YAML that didn't seem to work:
```
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: workerpool-canary
spec:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions:
      - {
         key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role,
         operator: In,
         values: [worker,workerpool-canary]
        }
```

The command to label the node:

`oc label node ci-ln-l6w1vgb-f76d1-l6qwn-worker-a-c5kg2 node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary=`

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Author: I then added the nodeSelector stanza and it seemed to work:

```
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: workerpool-canary
spec:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions:
      - {
         key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role,
         operator: In,
         values: [worker,workerpool-canary]
        }
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/workerpool-canary: ""
```

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Reviewer 3: Yes, Node selector is required. For example 

```
$ cat mcp1.yaml 
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: mcp1
spec:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions:
      - {key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role, operator: In, values: [worker,mcp1]}
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/mcp1: ""

$ oc create -f mcp1.yaml 

$ oc label node ci-ln-lnxrcz2-f76d1-8vztb-worker-c-p8zf5 node-role.kubernetes.io/mcp1=
```
works for me everytime.

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Reviewer 4: Following the example file with `matchLabels`, which should be the same with the label added to nodes. It works for me.

> <3> Specify the custom label you added to the node(s) that you want in this machine config pool.

Reviewer 5: <1> is defined for mcp name, <3> is to filter matched nodes to add them into a MCP, so I think the description looks good to me.
